Edgar guys who work the course.
Let me take the time firstly to thank you for rolling in this cause and secondly to let you know that
if you run into any problems along the way as you move through this course.
Just let me know.
I'm here to help.
So if you have any issues or bugs or you're not working just ask me a question or send me a message
and I'll get back to you within a couple of hours.
It's also worth noting that this is not an introduction to h.t. email course.
And all I mean by that is while we do go over the basics particularly at the start of the course we
don't go over them in this same amount of detail as you would find in an instruction to programming
course.
OK.
So all that means is if you've never program before.
Just ask me some questions if you need some more explanations.
Are we happy to spend as much time as you need going through things with you and the very last thing
before you get started with this is just when you feel the time is right.
If you could leave this course a positive review I'd really really appreciate it because as instructors
the positive reviews are all we have to go off.
So I'm really really thankful for all the positive reviews I get.
Okay well I've said everything I need to say.
Let's get started.
So we get started now.
The first lecture is the most boring one we just have to set up our web server and our text editor.
This is the only time in the course you have to actually download things and set things up so just bear
with me through this video.
And after that we'll be onto the good stuff.
So the first thing to install is sublime text.
This is just so a text editor and you're free to use any text editor you want.
If you have a favourite in mind.
Maybe you use like using Notepad you can use any text editor you want but this is a very typical programming
text editor particularly for h.t. AML.
So this is a very good one to go with.
So if you just google a blind text and click on the first link you will take you to this website and
you can just click download on a Mac so it's faux sex.
But you know it is available on all operating system so you have no problems with that.
So I've already downloaded it so I'm not going to click save.
But the set up is pretty simple so I want you to run you through that.
So this is what the text looks like at the moment it just looks like a blank screen is not much to it.
You just like to type code.
And that's really all you need to know.
It's a really simple thing.
Okay so the next thing will be install is our web server and the web server just allows us to test our
code locally without having to buy hosting or anything.
Okay so just type in Zambia just like that.
Because that's the name of the website we're going to use and click on the first link.
From there you will see the difference.
Our brain system is available on so go ahead and click yours.
Like I said I'm on a Maxo outlook this one.
And then you should see the installer appear.
So click Save I'm saying that whatever you want I have already downloaded it ahead of time.
Just try and speed things up a little bit so I won't say it again but once you've saved that.
Open it up and click on the file you just downloaded and that will start the installer.
So on a Mac it looks like this obviously looks slightly different on your operating system.
So just go ahead and open that up.
I need to add to my password with just a password for my computer.
But you may or may not need to do this.
Go ahead and click okay.
And you see the wizard appear.
And this is pretty simple.
Just click through.
Like I said it looks slightly different if you are on a Windows operating system or something but for
the most part it is the same.
Okay I think on the windows one you have a bunch of different things you can install down here but just
leave the defaults and then click next and then click next again.
It will install.
Like I said I really install this way we actually do this.
But click next and it will begin the installation.
So once you have that install you will go ahead and open it up so go to location that you installed
at siamak it would be in applications most likely.
And scroll down to stamp down.
Open that folder and then you have this right here in a Mac it's called manager OSX but it might because
something slightly different for you.
Maybe our control plan is something and this is the eigen so double click on that and you tend to add
password again.
And then you see it's opened.
Here we go.
So there's really not much you need to do here.
Just go across to on a Mac anyway.
Manage servers and make sure that my skewl database is running an Apache web servers running okay on
a Windows computer.
If I remember correctly there's a there's a couple more options here.
You have files ala Mercury a tom cat.
But all I need to do is make sure Apache is running and then my obscure old database is running again.
So just Bob Apache as well.
Everything else you could ignore.
These may or may not be running when you start for the first time but most likely they're not.
So just hit start on them back on them start again.
That's it.
Leave that running Don't close down anything and check it worked.
You can just go to any browser just type in local host like that.
Just type in local host and you should hopefully see a screen similar to this.
If you see a screen with a bunch of languages underneath just click on your language.
It should take you to this screen if you dont see this.
It means that you don't have the set up correctly.
Okay but just by having them running you should see this.
And that's it for us do it.
That's all the insulation you need to do throughout the whole course.
So we're going to write a very quick test page now to make sure that works.
Open up a blind text which is our text editor.
You just download it.
Go out and say that and we're going to save that to the location that you installed your web server
too so go to wherever you just saved azam too.
So in my case applications zantop and h.t. docs is the Foley one.
80 docs is where all your web page is going to go.
OK.
Because when you type in local host it takes you to this folder.
Logo's you just a go to this folder.
So you're going to create a new website in this folder.
So inside a detox folder and a quick new folder and give a name for your project on and call it slots
of Fi that Spotify and click create.
So I've got quite a bunch of websites in here but you can see the slifer website I've just created.
And then we have save this file in there as Index Doc BHP.
KS your first bid to be file.
Click save and the good thing about cymbeline is it can auto complete for you as you're typing.
But we can just type in htl and click tab and it fill in the structure of a basic AIST email page OK.
And to check it worked.
We're just going to.
Hello right there.
Save that mystery save it.
Go back to your web browser.
Type in local host local host and then slash web your folder was called for your website.
So I called it Spotify going.
Hit enter and you should see hello which is why we had in here.
If you see that it works and it is a very very brief introduction into a teaser for those of absolute
beginners.
The body section right here is where all your content is and go free website.
The head section between these two is where you going to say what jobs get files to include or what's
the files which you are storing files and inside this title tag right here.
We can say I've gone too far to fly or whatever you want to put.
And you see that that appears in the tab right here right there.
Okay so whatever you type in the title tag appears here.
So that was just a very quickly your action to the h.t. Email structure for those absolute beginners
out there and that's it.
So in this lesson we stored our text editor our web server and we write a little test page and we know
works.
Remember if you have any problems at all with this just write me a message I usually respond within
a couple of hours.
So that's it.
That's actually all the insulation you need to do throughout this whole course.
So you've made it through the boring part.
Now onto the good stuff.